# American-Made Solar Prize Software Track Submission For Ready

## Response to Question 1:
OEO seeks to address the affordable housing crisis as well as implement use of solar technologies utilizing allocated funds. The National Low Income Housing Coalition examines the US Census Bureau’s American Community Survey (ACS) yearly to identify the availability of rental homes to those earning 30% of the area median income or “living below the poverty line” - whichever is greater - referred to as “extremely low incomes”.  In 2020, the NLIHC found that 25% (10.9 million) of renter households are living with “extremely low incomes.” Furthermore, 71% of those 10.9 million renter households are housing-cost burdened - spending more than half of their incomes on rents and utilities (National Low Income Housing Coalition, 2020, P.1-2). We believe if renters are unable to meet their basic need of housing, there is minimal/no incentive to seek out alternative energy sources. If there are no incentives for the investor to implement alternative energy sources - they are not going to do so.

OEO believes if the affordability of housing is solved through use of decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO) and provides an avenue for allocating funds to cover the capital costs of solar technologies - the barriers to affordable housing and sustainable, renewable energies can be solved. Blockchain and DAO technologies are new, and by establishing a new, affordable, sustainable mechanism for addressing these issues now - we are setting the minimum standard while leading the way for future developers, investors, etc. to join in and continue to improve upon the system. Blockchain is the next step for real estate technological advancements and OEO is ready to act. 

“Absent public subsidy, the private market is unable to produce new rental housing affordable to these households, because the rents that the lowest-income households can afford to pay typically do not cover the development costs and operating expenses of new housing” (National Low Income Housing Coalition, 2020, P. 15). Additionally, a private investor or developer is not going to install solar technologies, which increases his initial costs while decreasing his net operating income.  The advantage to using a DAO, is there is no “need” for profits. By continuing to invest in “itself” - all funds are allocated to basic expenses, renter-subsidies, and use of renewable energy sources. 

OEO believes we have first movers advantage in this space. Our closest competitors would be those utilizing tokenization of Real Estate that could potentially pivot into our model. Currently, tokenized real estate is targeted toward investors (“accredited investors”) whereas we are utilizing tokenized real estate to target, (and empower), renters themselves. 

## Response to Question 2:
 OEO’s solution to the affordable housing crisis and implementation of use of solar technologies utilizing allocated funds is giving assets (i.e. housing) the ability to own themselves with governance by the people (i.e. renters) who use the assets with an established fund for solar initiatives. This is possible through tokenized real estate. OEO’s software is smart contracts that are stored on the Ethereum blockchain that together create a Decentralized Autonomous Organization. In this solution the property will “own” itself through use of Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO) and in exchange for rent payments, will distribute Governance Tokens to the renters which will provide them with the ability to vote on maintenance/management functions of the property. Instead of an investor or a property manager dictating changes and requirements to the property, the governance token holders will make those decisions together.

Smart Contract can be thought of as a tiny computer program stored inside of a blockchain, that completes an action when predetermined conditions are met; these programs are immutable and distributed; and developed using Solidity computer language. The Ethereum Blockchain is “community-run technology powering the cryptocurrency, ether (ETH) and thousands of decentralized applications” (Ethereum.org). A Decentralized Autonomous Organization is the most complex form of a smart contract, where the bylaws of the decentralized organization are embedded into code; as opposed to a traditional top-down organization where a CEO is in control, a DAO is a bottom-up, self-enforcing entity where token holders validate decisions that enact the functions programmed into the smart contracts. OEO’s software will use ERC 20 Standard tokens; one representing property ownership (fixed amount) and one representing governance (infinite amount). ERC-20 tokens are fungible, or mutually interchangeable with unique identification numbers. Property ownership tokens will remain with the financier and then transfer to the property DAO. Governance tokens will be distributed to renters with each rent payment made providing them with the “right” to govern. 

1) OEO will establish OEO LLC, as a Delaware Series Limited Liability Company; this allows for the creation of unlimited segregations of membership interests, assets, and operations into a SERIES.

2) Each Series of the Series LLC will be treated as a separate entity and will own properties independently of each other. 

3) Each Series of the Series LLC will have a fixed amount of ERC-20 Tokens (i.e. property ownership).

4) Property Ownership ERC-20 Tokens will be transferred to the Decentralization Autonomous Organization (Property DAO).

5) Renters will pay rents to the Property DAO

6) Property DAO will mint and distribute 1 Governance Token for each USD of rent received to the renter. 

7) Property DAO will make all required expense payments (i.e. Mortgage, Taxes, Insurances, and Solar Conversion Fund)

8) Governance Token Holders will use the platform to create proposals and vote on how to budget and allocate additional funds (i.e. Property Management, Property Maintenance, etc.). 

9) The Property DAO will execute approved proposals made by Governance Token Holders.

10) The Property DAO will disperse remaining funds (i.e. “profits”) back to Residents at the property who maintain Governance Tokens, thereby subsidizing rents.  
	
The current standard is an investor-owned property where decisions are governed by that investor(s) to achieve an annual return rate of between 8-12%.  In OEO’s solution of a DAO-owned asset, the 8-12% is allocated to subsidize rents or fund governance proposals - thus creating affordable housing and providing renters with more input in their living arrangements. The OEO Platform will charge the following fees: 10% property acquisition fee (including for initial purchase, establishment of LLC, creation and assignment of tokens, hiring of initial property management, and establishing a maintenance fund); 2% total rents received; and 3% if a property is sold (i.e. leaves the platform). The OEO Platform’s fees and incentives for renters easily creates a sustainable business model. Once the mortgage is paid off, instead of a typical investor re-financing and continuing to charge fair-market rent or higher - OEO’s properties will have profits translating into significant subsidies for renters (i.e. lower rents). This is believed to be a sustainable model as once renters are met with the benefit of low-rent, others will want to participate in this model to achieve the same low-rents. 

OEO’s minimum viable product will include developing a user interface platform (a traditional website with functionality), using open source software that will allow us to develop ERC-20 Tokens, and proof of concept smart contract that allows us to show the exchange of tokens.  A critical failure would include not having the ability to create tokens; which would disrupt the assignment of property ownership and governance equity. 

A version of OEO’s software does not currently exist. The implementation of smart contracts on the blockchain and development of ERC-20 Tokens to provide fractionalized ownership does currently exist; and is being used by companies like RealT, Liberty Real Estate Fund, and others to provide fractionalized ownership to investors (who in turn are entitled to portions of the profits). See figure “Real Estate Tokenization.” While these companies appear to be operating in the same function OEO is, we plan on allocating profits to our governance token holders. See figure “OEO.” 

OEO will expand solar access to underserved populations by focusing on acquiring properties with renters who are housing-cost burdened. This model will provide significant control and benefit to those who obtain governance tokens. Renters traditionally have minimal-to-no say in changes to properties, rents, utilities, amenities, etc. Under OEO Property DAO, renters will be empowered to participate in decision making. Additionally, under OEO Property DAO, renters will be provided access to solar technologies through predetermined allocated funds. 

## Response to Question 3:
As captain of OEO, I have always been an advocate for clean, renewable energies such as the use of solar panels for housing. As a property developer, and investor, it's often been hard for me to justify the upfront costs of converting rentals to solar technologies.  I think this is an industry-wide issue in Real Estate Investment. It takes significant funds to break into the field and remain competitive. I started learning about blockchain technology in 2016.  In March 2021, I learned of new legislation in Wyoming that DAO’s can use the LLC legal entity form depending on some conditions/criteria - this led me to begin thinking of how to bring new technologies to the real estate market. I enrolled in my first 3- month Coding Boot Camp in April 2021 to really increase my knowledge and technical skill in software development. This allowed me to start networking in the industry. Over the last few months my focus has been primarily on learning solidity and smart contracts on my own. I attended a Real Estate Tokenization summit in Texas in September which only fueled my desire to become immersed in the field.  When I learned of the solar prize, I immediately knew I needed to use my skills to create a new way to bring renewable energies into real estate.  The READY! Contest gives my team the safety to explore the space and really develop a viable product. Fundraising comes with its own challenges, and when you incorporate a new technology like blockchain where lenders and banks want a proven model in place - your chance of getting approval without some major collateral is slim. We feel the solar prize provides not only a “safe” fundraising opportunity but also a chance to work with a network of other like-minded individuals through the American Made network.  

Amy has a background in social program development and a day job as a therapist for the local county.  When she learned about the Solar Prize with the JEDI component, she immediately encouraged me to incorporate the JEDI component into the “bigger picture.”  She was first introduced to blockchain technologies in 2018 and became interested in how decentralized autonomous organizations could prove valuable, and empowering to underrepresented communities. Amy’s ability to successfully manage and motivate a team, set deadlines, and implement new programs will prove valuable as we build our team, work toward a common goal, and execute something that has never been done before. 

OEO feels our team is uniquely capable of addressing issues of solar adoption in underserved communities because our goal is to increase the affordability of housing and provide solar conversion funds to house-cost burdened families. We are passionate about housing, blockchain, and renewable energies. The desire to increase the affordability of housing inherently includes working with people who have extremely low-incomes to ensure they have a stake in solar adoption. Currently, Solar Power Purchaser Agreements have increased solar adoption with little to no capital costs, however there are significant barriers to utilizing these agreements as a house-cost burdened family such as a certain credit score or a debt-to-income ratio requirements. Not only does OEO’s solution circumvent the need for credit or income-to-debt ratios, we also circumvent the problem that most low-income households are renting in multifamily or shared-roof properties. OEO’s model of designating a solar fund, means all renters are able to participate in solar adoption despite the property-type. Since OEO’s model involves a “solar conversion fund” - once funded - we are able to utilize “community solar” or “solar gardens” to address any physical barriers faced by low-income households. 

## Response to Question 4:
OEO has programmed a Smart Contract that is able to successfully distribute tokens and allow for multiple users to “vote” on identified proposals. This functionality provides high-level confidence in continuing to expand Smart Contracts and develop a final, functioning software product. OEO’s current team is small. The speed of software development and overall quality of the MVP and final product may improve if we are able to acquire additional software developers and funding. OEO hopes to utilize the American Made Network to collaborate with connectors who are familiar with alternative funding options and acquisition of talent. Blockchain technologies are exciting, but given their “newness” we would like assistance in recruiting as it does not provide the familiarity of a traditional software developer job.  Additionally, the “newness” of business models involving blockchain may cause traditional lenders to hesitate on providing funding. Assistance with securing funding outside of traditional lenders may provide benefit to implementing our software on an actual property. There are inherent risks associated with utilizing Blockchain technologies: 1. Blockchain is immutable, meaning once it is programmed to enact a function, it does so with no influence from other input. This is both positive (no influence) and negative (if a mistake is made, it will take significant corrective action to fix). We feel this is mitigated by utilizing Test Networks to validate our programming code and providing technical assistance/education to our stakeholders (i.e. renters, developers, etc.). 2. Most people do not know what Blockchain is or how to utilize components (i.e. wallets). We feel this risk is mitigated by providing education, training, and set-up to our renters through use of a property manager.  

Timeline: 

1) By April 1st 2022 (SET!) OEO will: Provide a minimum viable product (OEO DAO Platform) that reflects a “front end” or something that users (i.e.renters) can interact with, demonstrates development of tokens, distribution of tokens, development of proposals, and voting on proposals. Additionally, we will obtain a minimum of 2 written commitments from private investors using personal contacts to fund initial property. 

2) By June 1st 2022 OEO will: Provide a refined product, form OEO DAO LLC, close on first property, form the first Property LLC in the series, and develop ERC-20 OEO Property Tokens (OEO PT). 

3) By July 2022 OEO will: Launch OEO DAO Platform, rents are successfully received on platform, develop ERC-20 OEO Governance Tokens (OEO GT), collect rents through platform, distribute collected rents to 3 identified funds (mortgage/taxes/insurance, solar conversion, and budget/profit).  

4) By September 2022 (GO!) OEO will have successfully tokenized our first property with renters able to fully utilize the OEO DAO Platform and provide feedback. 
By September 2023 OEO will demonstrate success of the entire project by providing ledgers of a growing solar fund as well as proof of proposals and funds as identified by renters. OEO will move forward in acquiring property #2 to tokenize. OEO will begin marketing software to neighborhood developers as a means to establish HOA and  to bring solar technologies to residential neighborhoods as well. 

5) By September 2023 OEO will demonstrate success of the entire project by providing ledgers of a growing solar fund as well as proof of proposals and funds as identified by renters. OEO will move forward in acquiring property #2 to tokenize. OEO will begin marketing software to neighborhood developers as a means to establish HOA and  to bring solar technologies to residential neighborhoods as well. 

OEO’s high budget expenses to meet our goals throughout Ready! Set! Go! will include $70,000 to $90,000 initially allocated to the following: 

>Software Development Team and Associated Costs

>Miscellaneous Services and Software Development Tools

>Blockchain and Web Development Consulting 

>Establishment of Legal Structures and Counsel

>Advertisement/Marketing Costs 
